![this was done in paint](/imgs/site-map.jpg "sitemap")


Q: What are the 6 Phases of Web Design?

A: the 6 phases of the website design and development process are:

-information gathering 

This is the first and most important step. It is here that you figure out 
what you want to do with your site, what it's for, who is it for, and 
what's going to be in it. Without all the necessary information, progress 
to the subsequent phases will be untenable.   

-planning
This is where you make a sitemap, which lists all the main areas of your 
site and sub areas of your site. It helps to develop a site that's easy to 
navigate. Imagine that your website is your own little town, and you've set 
up your town. Now you want people to be able to get around your town 
easily, right? So since this is your town, naturally you'd make your house 
the center of it. That's what I would do, because I'm lazy and want to be 
able to get everywhere from home. I wouldn't want to have to pass through 
the ice cream parlor to get to the gym. It wouldn't make any sense and I 
would never make it past the ice cream. So you set it up so that it's easy 
and hopefully intuitive. Want to get to ice cream? It's in the food court. 
So you go from home, to the food court, and then to the ice cream shop. You 
wouldn't want to put the shoe store in the food court; that would make no 
sense. Instead, that would be grouped together with apparel in their own 
little corner of town. And when you're tired from eating or shopping, 
home's only a step or two away. You won't have to go through any labrynths 
to find your way back. 
This takes us back to phase 1: information gathering. Let's say you're 
planning a town and you found out that the townspeople who are coming are 
gluten free, lactose intolerant vegans! What's your food court going to 
serve now? What if your town is a nudist colony? No need for Apparel or 
shoes anymore. This is why it's so important to gather information first, 
so that you won't run into the problem of not having any food to serve the 
people with special dietary contraints, and an entire section devoted to 
clothing no one will ever wear.

-design

Ok, so now you know what your website is going to do, what it's for, and 
who it's for. You've planned for the people you want coming and it's pretty 
much catering to them. This is the part where you have to get them! You've 
got to choose the right colors and layout and most importantly, feel! If it 
doesn't give off the right feeling, it won't work. "If you build it, they 
will come" isn't specific enough in our case. "If you build it properly, 
the right people will come" might be closer to our needs. 

-development

This is the brass and tacks of web design. This is where all the coding 
gets done, when the design and planning gets implemented into a real 
working website. Now the first thing, the home page, your house, is being 
put up, and then the shell. The shell would be the roads and properties of 
the town, and then the content would start populating the newly created 
real estate. 

-testing and delivery

Testing is essentially the dry run, or soft grand opening of your town. 
This is where everything is given a (hopefully) thorough run through to 
make sure everything works the way it's supposed to and can be accessed by 
everyone who wants to be able to access it. So during the testing phase, 
multiple browsers are tested to ensure proper display and function. So say 
you've got some browsers and they're like transportation to your website. 
For the sake of argument we'll say Chrome is the sports car, safari is the 
subway, firefox is the light rail, opera is the bus and internet explorer 
is foot traffic. You want to make sure everyone can get to your town just 
as easily and have all the same access, so you test! Make sure everyone who 
wants to come to town, can.
And then the delivery. An FTP (file transfer protocol) program is used to 
upload the entire website to your server. They're the long haul truckers 
who come with buildings on flatbeds and drop them off and set them in 
during the night and by morning, you've got a website! Or a town! Or both!  

-maintenance

This is the final phase, which ensures that your website stays relevant. 
You can add products, pages, change layouts, fix typos, move things around, 
whatever you feel like doing. Does your town need a face lift? Is the 
bowling alley no longer in use? Did people really stop going into the movie 
rental store? Then maybe it's time for an update. Get with the times, move 
and shake, keep up! You want people to keep coming, don't you?

Q: What is your site's primary goal or purpose? What kind of content will your site feature?

A: My site's primary goal right now is to function as a proving ground for whatever code I'm learning and hopefully make it so that someone else can learn from it, too. I'm hoping my site will contain content pertaining to my journey to become a web developer and any resources that helped me get there. 

Q: What is your target audience's interests and how do you see your site addressing them?

A: My target audience's interest will be in coding, programming, maybe learning more about the language of computers. If I can do it, anyone can! Although I haven't done it yet, I hope I'll get there and show people it isn't as unattainable as it seems.

Q: What is the primary "action" the user should take when coming to your site? Do you want them to search for information, contact you, or see your portfolio? It's ok to have several actions at once, or different actions for different kinds of visitors.

A: The primary action would probably be to read some content first, then have an option to see a portfolio. My first instinct is to make contacting me quite the hassle, like companies that hide phone numbers to customer service representitives so that irate customers will hopefully give up quickly and keep their complaints to themselves, but I would guess that I would have it as a secondary action so that they can reach me if they see anything they like. 

Q: What are the main things someone should know about design and user experience?

A: The main things people should know about design and user experience is that it's more about feel when it comes to designing. The entire concept of design has evolved since the inception of the internet. It's all about the user now, how they interact, how they feel. They need to consider who is accessing and from where and with what kind of hardware, so many considerations when it comes to design that developers of the past never had to deal with.

Q: What is user experience design and why is it valuable? 

A: User experience design (UXD) is a specialty in development that focuses 
on the 'feel' of a particular website experience, an emotional response 
that can be difficult to quantify by traditional metrics and requires an in 
depth knowledge base of their target audience, potential audience, as well 
their product.
UXD specialists are essentially shaping the ergonomics of a particular 
website or system, making it comfortable, inviting, appealing, engaging, 
and attractive.
A good example of the pinnacle of UXD is Apple. They may not have been 
first to market with tablets or smartphones, but they have set the bar. 
iPads have become proprietary eponyms for tablets. iPhones, whether they 
were being innovative or not, have always been seen as the smartphone by 
which all other smartphones are stacked against. Companies who literally 
invented tablets and smart phones first have been accused of copying Apple. 
Why? Simply ask an apple fanatic about the keynote, or walk by the queue at 
an Apple store during product release and you'll understand immediately the 
devotion. Everything about their products to their employees, the website, 
the store!, all exhibit what I refer to as the apple aesthetic. That is 
user experience done right.
Windows tablets had a huge head start in the tablet game. Why didn't they 
lock in the number one spot? They gave users too much freedom and 
functionality, trying to replicate the PC experience on a portable device 
before the world was ready. They didn't account for what people would 
primarily use the devices for, how many features were really needed, and 
whether restricting access and functionality was something to be 
considered. Apple took the less is more approach and has been winning ever 
since. 
Android had a similarly rocky start. The first ever android phone, the HTC 
G1, running android 1.0, was buggy, crashed, drained the battery and for 
most people, too much of a hassle. The learning curve was too steep. But 
boy did it have features! It gave you the freedom to change any application 
on the phone that you wanted, you could side load APIs from anywhere, 
authorized or not. The phone and the software could be completely 
customized. And root priviledges were a piece of cake! If you wanted to 
change your clock speeds, partitions, you could! Your friend just wrote a 
keyboard api? Give it a test drive, you didn't even need to download it 
from any official channels. Expandable memory, removable batteries. It was 
the toy for tinkerers. Contrast that with the iphone which locked down 
every aspect of everything. It didn't even have copy and paste! And guess 
which one was wildly successful? Such is the power of UXD.    

Q: Which parts of the challenge did you find tedious?

A: I didn't find any part of this challenge tedious. 
